Jerry Howard: Wanting
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Listen. Sure you are coming because you didn't reply to the email. So I'm sorry for the delay.
Jerry Howard: I never, I never could find the email I look for one go.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I've been
Jerry Howard: Watching a lot of problems with my internet
Like
Jerry Howard: All
Jerry Howard: The way.
Jerry Howard: Up until yesterday when I
Jerry Howard: Don't love doing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Thanks for making our appointment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's been going on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's been going on. I'm having seen during group and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A lot of things.
Jerry Howard: I got laid off from work.
Jerry Howard: My mom died.
Jerry Howard: So I had
Jerry Howard: My first and then we just held back by birth, but you know $400
Jerry Howard: That I don't even like my drug time and I just got a new drug because I was getting paid $1,000 a week. No. And now I'm only getting $430 a week.
Jerry Howard: Dress and the ran in my truck payment and like this morning. I don't know if it were have been stressing over that or not.
Jerry Howard: But I woke up and I was just really depressed and a rage. Fine. I got on my step daughter, because she hasn't helped her laundry and probably a week.
Jerry Howard: And our
Jerry Howard: Dish their background, you know, I went off and I can't help it. I don't really know why that was right. Let's talk about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, it is time to get some clarification. Is this the new job that you was on looking forward to starting was this other job.
Jerry Howard: Now this was a new one.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So did they give you a restart date when this all dies down you can report back to work. Or it's just one of those they terminated you and you don't know when you'll ever
Jerry Howard: Know I'm just, I'm light off and kill my birth.
Jerry Howard: Oh, roughly around three week
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, it's hard it's it's hard being in the situation and, you know, like you said, because of the outside stress that's going on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A lot of this anxiety. The stress is wants to present itself within your household dynamics.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, and, of course, if you don't have a proper outlet of how to communicate your frustration or the challenges, it will present itself in other ways. So what happened with your step daughter to talk about that.
Jerry Howard: Well, I mean, she just
Jerry Howard: She started doing tomorrow and
Jerry Howard: Joe
Jerry Howard: You got your bedroom and a instead of liking her flight back to the kitchen to display at the top, the fans, you know, there was no candy in the in the winter sale.
Jerry Howard: That are close with piled up and just, you know, like trash out everywhere. Yeah, I can spin on her for like a week now to get all that cleaned up.
Jerry Howard: And she just keep the normal. So when I got up, you know, she was still up and she'd been up all night on the telephone with her cousin video just, you know, hey, just remind me math and she could do that, whether cousin, but now she can clean up her bedroom and started loving lunch.
Jerry Howard: Went off.
Jerry Howard: It was like I was in like in a plan, right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Alright, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: thoughts, feelings behaviors.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was the thought.
Jerry Howard: Mad
Jerry Howard: Or
Jerry Howard: I guess she needed to clean her bedroom and Shatner was about
Jerry Howard: And I guess the behavior was getting mad and you know going on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It was thoughts, feelings, and behaviors so fat is that she didn't have her room, if it's been very messy. I'm feelings.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm curious to know if it was a disrespect because I in the past conversations you say you just don't feel like she respects your authority.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm curious to know, and just kind of getting the best out of this exercise if the feeling was really anchor off is really rooted and feeling disrespected, which one. Which one do you feel like it's most
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Relevant for you.
Jerry Howard: I would, I would say.
Jerry Howard: Probably disrespected
Jerry Howard: Because I've been on her for a week now and for her not to do that was very disrespectful.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then prior to this prior to going into the room. What were some thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that you were experiencing as a result of things going on with you with work relationships, what were you feeling before you saw what you said.
Jerry Howard: Like I was really stressed out when I went to bed last night. And then when I woke up this morning, I was really depressed about know worrying if I was going to have enough money to my truck payment and either ran
Jerry Howard: And I
Jerry Howard: took a toll on my ladies relationship because I've been really stressed out, you'll
Jerry Howard: I've not really been I want to wait because of it.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what what's going on is what we call projection. So you have certain was not necessarily projection, but your experience in these situations.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so the reaction formation is to take it out on the people in your household. A lot of people do that. There's faster defense mechanism when they have anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To the anxiety that your experiences natural you know people in a position where they don't know how they're going to pay bills. You know, it's Maslow's hierarchy of needs. If you don't have your basic needs being met. And if you don't feel that that that purpose.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It can make you feel depressed. It can make you feel frustrated and it's not like you can process these emotions to your employer and make up your job back. So the, the natural outlet will be whoever's closest to you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So let's find a way to be able to communicate how we're feeling in the moment versus taking out our frustrations on others. So if given the opportunity to speak to, to your lady about what was going on. What would that conversation look like, what would you say to her.
Jerry Howard: Tell her no
Jerry Howard: Look, I'm feeling really depressed and stressed out because yeah I got laid off and I don't think we're gonna have enough money to cover everything
Jerry Howard: And then she would
Jerry Howard: Probably type. Well, you know, you need to give it to God. Understand that you know you can pray and ask help
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You can give it to God with that response have made you have offered you comfort when it has made you more frustrating. How would that response of major
Jerry Howard: I wouldn't say it was a competent, but at the same time kind of frustrating.
Jerry Howard: Because she you know we've had that question before. And she said that, you know, identifying and trying to give it to God, but you know that feeling of stress and worry was still there.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The way those work on what communication skills to because the more you're able to safely communicate what you're feeling and process it in a safe environment, the less you'll see those reactions playing out
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In a first ways in your family because I'm hearing the regret of how you reacted and so wanting to do things right. The first way so you don't have to deal with the guilt and then go back and apologize apologize later so
Jerry Howard: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I have this this template for communication that I find so effective. And this that I feel like I understand. Fill in the blank, I need to fill in the blank.
Jerry Howard: What what
I feel
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then fill in the blank.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I understand.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Fill in the blank.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I need
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To let me model that example for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Based on what you gave me with your conversation with your lady.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And using that template Jerry probably would have said.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you call your, your lady when you're having a conversation with her. What's her name.
Jerry Howard: Sarah.
Sarah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sarah I'm feeling really depressed right now about the situation that's going on with my job. I understand. I need to pray and need to give it to God right now. I really need you to just listen to how
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because in back statement, you're able to, I feel you're able to adequately explain your feelings.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In that to you're practicing the emotional awareness, because oftentimes we react and we have no idea why we react to that and such an extreme way because we're not in tune with our emotions and what our body is telling us
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the IPO gives you that opportunity to really assess what is going on with you that I understand is equally important, because it gives whoever you're communicating with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The opportunity to see that you're not being selfish is communication that you kind of already figure what their position is going to be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But that is tricky because you can't say I understand if you really don't understand or if you're unsure about the partners situation and the I need to partner.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Further opportunity and understanding of how they can support you. Because Sarah may not realize, saying, you just need to give it to God.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like you said, it's comforting. But at the same time it's frustrating because it's almost like brushing brushing off my situation and not really acknowledging that this is stressful.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that's why use the I feel that I understand, and I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Want to practice that for
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All know. Tell me what you would say to Sarah, you know, in the situation. If you want to discuss this.
Jerry Howard: I would I would start by saying, No, I don't need to talk because I'm
Jerry Howard: Feeling really depressed stressed out about this situation. Yeah, I've got laid off and have undergone deployment and now you know she got laid off yesterday and has an appointment.
Jerry Howard: And she would probably say, you know,
Jerry Howard: Just need to give it to God and not worry about it and trust that he's gonna take care of it.
Jerry Howard: And I would probably say back. No.
Jerry Howard: That's like a minute competent by the Worry and stress. It's still there. It's just like a temporary
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Temporary yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the faith is a temporary comfort. What would be a more long standing comfort for you. What do you, what do you need from Sarah in this moment.
Jerry Howard: Probably to say, you know, we'll figure it out. It says down and go figure out how we can split the bills up
Jerry Howard: Get everything I
Jerry Howard: Share about worrying that a baker.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm hearing that you need a plan.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You need something on paper to kind of help you process it and you want that plan to be executed together because you you feeling like you're just carrying this burden of stress on on this by yourself, is that adequate.
Jerry Howard: That's exactly what I was saying.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. So you see how you use an i feel i understand and I need even helped me to really get what you need in this moment because some people
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And maybe this is sales experience. Maybe this well this has happened to her, but maybe for her. She wouldn't need a plan because it might stress her out. Seeing those numbers on paper.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So maybe what she needs is
Jerry Howard: Just someone is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Going to do
Jerry Howard: A lot of
Jerry Howard: probably watched her out because she has a lot of anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Exactly. So you see she's giving you a
Jerry Howard: Shield wiper
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, she's giving you. She will want in that moment, if this was her they got laid off and you were working, she would probably want you to say we'll pray about it will give it to God and that would be just fine for her, but what you need.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is a plan. This is really stressing you out. You are responsible for the household. You take pride in being able to take care of your family.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And now you can't. And you're also being vulnerable enough to ask for help because in that plan. That means you saying I don't have it all figured out. I need you to support help me figure this out.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's good. Jerry That's really good that you can be vulnerable enough to say I'm going to need some support in this area, but but she doesn't really understand what you need in that moment she's going to continue to offer up which she would want
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Remember we love the way we want to be.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It takes involved person to think how to help someone in their time of me if they don't know how to or they don't even know how to hook their own selves when they're in distress. So you get the opportunity to teach her Jerry, how to help you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She can only do that when you communicate effectively.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I want to stick with the i feel i understand i need only because it's so critical in the basis of communication.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What we can do is practice that a little more in this session. Let's practice with your God.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know what to say to her about everything that happened.
Jerry Howard: I would just tell her that, you know, I'm trying to figure it all out and
Jerry Howard: Everything's gonna be okay.
Jerry Howard: I'll find a way to
Jerry Howard: Get everything that we need it to all way they
Jerry Howard: Don't need to worry about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that would be good to offer her that support. You know what you are communicating to her is some relief that don't worry
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But do you see that's exactly what you're wanting from Sarah. So that's why you're communicating that to your stepdaughter
Jerry Howard: You're
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Saying that Sarah will come in and she will communicate. It's okay. This is hard for we're gonna figure it out.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But Jerry, you already have the knowledge that Sarah has anxiety to she's gonna be a little more vulnerable in this situation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, if we had to do levels of power here. She's probably going to be still at level one, you're at level two or three
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That doesn't mean that she gets to stay at level one. But what that means is you might have to give her some extra support so that she can get to the next level.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that extra support looks like you modeling for her.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How to communicate.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Maybe tonight. You don't bring it up. Maybe you decide you are going to, but when you do you focus on. I feel I understand. And I'm that has to be your basis because if you start rambling off on other things.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Then it's just going to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Allow for Sarah to continue to absorb her anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And she made to shut down on you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hear me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You hear me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah I froze for a second. What I was saying that I'm that I feel that I understand, and it will be important because if you start rambling off to her what that's going to do is produce more anxiety for Sarah and what she's going to do is, she's either going to shut down on you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or she's going to present and an emotional distress, and it's just going to make the situation more difficult.
Jerry Howard: Yeah, that's exactly why it would help.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah okay so let's just focus on the I feel I understand and for her to understand it's going to be most important
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because people would things it wants to feel understood. They want to feel protected so that I understand is pivotal for her.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because she's gonna know that you're not blaming her. She don't think it's her fault, but that you need her it's reminding her of the team that you have to go together as a friend.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sarah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I feel, I feel depressed. I feel worried about the situation, Sarah. I feel angry that this happened, you know, whatever the emotion is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're going to express. But I also want to offer this support to you because sometimes we really don't even know how we're feeling. And so it's hard to communicate that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm pulling up the emotions chart because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Earlier you said you know you were angry with your stepdaughter, but what we talked about, you realize well me I just felt more disrespected the angry.
Jerry Howard: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And when we have that accurate assessment of our emotion, we can communicate it better.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what emotion, would you use, and I feel when talking to Sarah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Down here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Which ones most accurate for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. So Sarah I feel worried and frustrated about everything that's going on. And maybe you add more stuff, you may want to be more specific, I feel worried and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Overwhelmed about when. What are you so worried and overwhelmed about Jerry
Jerry Howard: About the veil.
Jerry Howard: Because I got light up and then yesterday she got lights off.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's the only course. It's just the bills. There's nothing in the house. It's nothing that's going on with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Grown a virus.
Jerry Howard: Well, what is already
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Coming from
Jerry Howard: I would say probably
Jerry Howard: Well, I got laid off and you know
Jerry Howard: stepdaughter, not what the hell.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is that a separate emotional your stepdaughter not picking up the house, does that make you feel worried and overwhelmed or does that make you feel a different emotion.
Jerry Howard: That might fill a
Jerry Howard: rough draft.
Jerry Howard: disrespected
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so that's a different statement then so we're only coupling up in this conversation where I worry and where are overwhelming emotions are coming from what's going on with your stepdaughter, that's going to be a whole different i feel i understand i know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, and we're going to work on that one. I'll
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Turn. So, and the reason why separated them is we don't want to mix up all these different experiences. That's not related to an emotion, because then that's how people get defensive
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you bring up other stuff recite even relevant. So Sarah I feel worried and overwhelmed about the bills. I understand that faith is important thing in our family and that we need to pray about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I need us to sit down and write down a plan of how we're going to get the bills.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Can you help me with that Sarah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, there you go. And now with your step daughter, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We want to see who are we going to have this conversation with. Is it going to be with your stepdaughter, do you want to talk to Sarah about this.
Jerry Howard: Would probably want to talk
Jerry Howard: About her daughter.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. So Sarah I feel the emotion in regards to use that data.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's annoyed angry. There was disrespected
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's also this one invisible.
Jerry Howard: Yeah, I could probably use that whatever because, you know, no matter what I thanked her. It's just like, no, I need a doctor about Sam Dekker found a white Brahma and not let her
Jerry Howard: Know,
Jerry Howard: Whatever y'all are getting back to mom somehow
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So Sarah I feel invisible and disrespected when it comes to whatever you set daughter's name.
Jerry Howard: Is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Caitlin, okay. Sarah I feel invisible and disrespected when it comes to Peyton
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I understand, what would you say what do you understand about the situation when it comes to Peyton
Jerry Howard: Understand that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know,
Jerry Howard: She's becoming a teenager. And you know, that's kind of the way they are, but now the way
Jerry Howard: She's living right now.
Jerry Howard: I've never seen a
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Teenager
Jerry Howard: You know,
Jerry Howard: Say that lazy and disrespectful respectful.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Taking that part out and taking that part out. Because you see, adding that extra can make her get
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Offensive. So we're going to just
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Clean that up a bit. Sarah I feel invisible and disrespected when it comes to Kaitlyn. I understand that this is how teenagers respond. Sometimes they may not clean as much but I need, what do you need
Jerry Howard: I get her.
Jerry Howard: Avatar, whether
Jerry Howard: You know, get her to understand the responsibility that
Jerry Howard: She ate.
Jerry Howard: And the structure of, you know, having some type of responsibility, you know, to get her ready for the real world.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sarah I feel invisible and disrespected when it comes to Caitlyn, I understand that teenagers go through this process where they don't clean as much and they don't have as much motivation, but I need Caitlin to be responsible.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's an important skill for her to have in life.
Jerry Howard: Work.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, because what you're doing is you're not giving much opportunity for one Sarah to get this defensive
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And if you use this and Sarah still find a way to be defensive. You can also realize this isn't me because I communicated the best way I can. So now you don't have to live with this regret have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Reacted to strongly. I should have said this, I shouldn't have said that. Now you get to have guilt free communication because all you're stating is your feelings.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your thoughts you're not giving too much personal examples because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It gets defensive
Jerry Howard: Dr. Like that.
Jerry Howard: That go
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, this is going to be a new way of communicating, because how did, how did you communicate in the past.
Jerry Howard: I would just got
A lie.
Jerry Howard: And I need to get Caitlyn
Jerry Howard: Planner bedroom up because she has already cloud when I wear
Jerry Howard: A skirt or cloud ready for go and chase to have that responsibility of, you know, doing something on our own, without you have to do it or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, so in the past when you communicated about Caitlyn, it was mostly expressing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The needs. That's what I hear, I hear more,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Emphasis on the needs and not your feelings or what you understand about the situation. So that's for Caitlin, how have you communicated. How's it feel with Sarah in the past.
Jerry Howard: I would just tell her. No.
Jerry Howard: Concern that
Jerry Howard: She don't learn some responsibility.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No, not about. It's not about Katie. Now my us Sarah if there was something that was going on with you and Sarah, how would you have communicated to Sarah in the past.
Jerry Howard: Um, I would just got her and
Jerry Howard: Tell her my concerns about whatever was going on and listen to you know what she had to say about it.
Jerry Howard: And try to take her boss, you know, whatever I have been going on in scope, relax.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it sounds like with when it comes to Caitlyn you communicate more needs when it comes to I'm Sarah you communicate more feeling
Jerry Howard: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And both of those conversations. What's missing is what you understand
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And now with Sarah, you haven't been clear and what you need.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's where that frustration is coming from. And that's why you project, a lot of that anger onto Caitlin, because since you can't really communicate to Sarah what money.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How do you communicate
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All that you need on Caitlin
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so some of the stuff with Kaitlyn might be some stuff that's coming from your frustration with Sarah to
Jerry Howard: Know,
Jerry Howard: really frustrated
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So all of them, all of them play equal part
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's important to express how you feel, because you want people to see that you have emotion that not just this person that works, works, works brings a paycheck and then forget about what Jerry must be feeling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The feelings is important.
Jerry Howard: And you know that's that's kind of the way I was feeling
Jerry Howard: Was, you know, here I provide a roof over their head and make sure I have phone and what they need. But then when it comes to mind. Nathan. Nathan concerns. I know you're just, you're just being a baby. And now, whatever the case may be.
Jerry Howard: stuck it out for pray about it.
Then
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you think that specific just to you or do you think that's a general response when it comes to men in issues. I'm curious.
Jerry Howard: I want this may
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The way to combat that is to be more vocal and the feelings and the understanding of the means
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so be careful when it comes to Kaitlyn, that because of Caitlyn that's that's what you communicate all the needs to right, be careful that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It doesn't get that displaced anger from Sarah on her because if she hasn't washed her clothes for two weeks. I suspect last week, you knew those schools. We can do something about this that you couldn't take it in.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Nashville.
Jerry Howard: Yeah, cuz i mean
Jerry Howard: I can't tell her all wait, no, I'm good. I'm about that. And then she would just get on her phone and video chat whether doesn't
Jerry Howard: Say, up to four or five o'clock in the morning and then slate. So five or six in the afternoon, you know them, they will not time, but they're not them because when we would come in now. We were just saying, and then go to bed, and she wouldn't want to do nothing. When we went to bed.
Jerry Howard: And wake up.
Jerry Howard: It anymore.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's a natural response, Jerry. We all have those moments where we just release, but that release typically comes out on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People that we feel that we can get away with with a listener in Iran, and then to it comes when we've been holding the emotions and for so long.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So Sarah gets the opportunity to support you and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Feeling understanding and needs.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And and Caitlin's wanted me to understand more how you feel about the situation and what you understand, too, because as a teenager that that stage of development is about finding their identity.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: About when finding your identity, how important it is to feel understood during that exploration
Jerry Howard: Okay, and be you know like
Jerry Howard: Any kind of interest does is academic like when I get mad at you know I got a really bad.
Jerry Howard: My anger issue.
Jerry Howard: This morning when I lashed out, you know, broke play and I can went way too far. And I'm really a shame. Now, and I had to go back and apologize.
Jerry Howard: You know, because
Jerry Howard: I was really name.
Jerry Howard: And asked about everything. But, you know, they have to understand too that I've been asked and I said, and no issue with your finger clause in there. I would watch him.
Jerry Howard: My you know there was
Jerry Howard: Like I don't have the bandwidth code in it and I'm in her room smelled like a land field. Yeah, she just got to understand that $100 a month and ran. I don't want to live in, Phil.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No, you're right. And you say that you know you have a right to be upset. Um, but the way you respond to that is what's most important. So
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're only one man. I'm going to pull up another activity that you're talking about. Because what's important in those moments, Jerry is people with anger management.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just doesn't go from zero to 100 the way people think there is a process your body gets you in a queue that you are upset.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But you ignore the cues and then before you know it. There's just like this bubbling over and you just you just rage. Think about a pot of boiling water.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, you have that pot of boiling water. But the minute you take it off the burner and you push it to the bat. What happens to that one wire.
Jerry Howard: For
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It starts boiling because you're able to take it off the heat.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In the same shot to bring the scale up as I like to give the visual
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sorry.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what you do is you keep track of one doing a communication because if you were able to adequately communicate, you know, you wouldn't have all this built up emotion anyway.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But another thing is this subject, subject to the unit of distress scale. So the numbers are good because it helps you to identify outside of yourself. What is really going on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, you know, if you do this, check in with yourself. You say, Jerry, you're upset about the situation on a scale of zero to 100 what's my number. So, for instance, everything that was going on this morning before you walk into that room. What number are you at
Jerry Howard: I was probably
Jerry Howard: Like a 90
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So before you walk into the room, you were already at a 90
Jerry Howard: Yeah.
Jerry Howard: I've been. I've been. You know, for over a week and she's out of school for the risk for a year now because of the corolla
Jerry Howard: And she still just flies on the phone lines in the bed, you know,
Jerry Howard: It's really frustrating.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You think of a time that you were upset with Kaitlyn that you weren't out of 90 that you were at a lower number
Jerry Howard: Yeah, like a
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: 2020
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was going on and you were at 20. What was the difference between what was happening right at 20 versus what was happening right and
Jerry Howard: She was
Jerry Howard: Talking to her dad, and he's trying to talk her into moving back to Tennessee with him and I only reason why I want to go back is because
Jerry Howard: I really big point is about 300 pounds and he wanted to go back to get back on math to lose weight and
Jerry Howard: She just kept on
Jerry Howard: Telling him now that she wasn't gone
Jerry Howard: And he just jumped know I kinda
Jerry Howard: Like the situation and microfilm. That's where she would go, I just kept telling you know
Jerry Howard: Takes them all together.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No.
Jerry Howard: No. Don't get upset about it. I'm worried that it
Jerry Howard: Is good to watch this number.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For this situation. We're going to stay on what happened this morning being at the 90 shows that you already came into what extremely anxious and extremely distressed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what you would do is you said you wanted some practical stuff want to focus on the i feel i understand i need statements. But Jerry still there, because you're frozen.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. So like I was saying that you know that you already came in at a 90 when it came to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Our Caitlin, so a practical way is I'm at a 90 right now I need to take myself off the burner. I need to allow myself to not
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To not play right think about imagery of that pot on that stone. If you're in a 90 Jerry, you already know I'm boiling right your body problems already telling you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where did. Where do you usually feel that anger in your mind when you're at a 90
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Our
Jerry Howard: Dialogue imma fight because my blood pressure goes up.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so you feel that that is your first sign of telling you that you need to take yourself off the stove.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And what you may need to practice is separation, you feel yourself on my end.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You feel your cheeks are flushed, you're going to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Take some time to separate you're going to do some self talk, you probably don't have to say, I feel disrespected in this moment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, what if you don't have any understanding, you might say, I don't understand anything at this point. I don't understand why they're not doing it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But this is you talking to yourself, I need in this moment to relax. I need in this moment to calm down whatever it is you need in that moment, do it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then come back, come back when you're not at a 90
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You may, you may come back at 60 that's okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But you're not at a 90 and you're not going to be throwing plates, this time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Period and it throws plates.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Jerry at a 6060 probably just does some talking, you know, and expresses some I need statements.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To this number is good, Jerry.
Jerry Howard: Do your email make
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sure.
Jerry Howard: Down, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Router
Jerry Howard: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's a lot. Let me I'm for this scale to you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're welcome. Let's meet again, I want to catch up to see
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How I feel I understand, and I need comments went for you. This is the building a bridge to effective communication for me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I have next week Tuesday the 14th available or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or THURSDAY THE 16th.
Jerry Howard: What
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tuesday I have four o'clock or six o'clock.
Jerry Howard: Six o'clock.
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I next week. I want you to drop the week. I want you to practice that I feel I understand, and I need state.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, now tell me how that went for you.
Jerry Howard: Okay, I got it down my
Wife.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I'm going to email you that scale. And I also want you to focus on, give me your cell phone number. So you know what you're feeling and you can be able to process and manage your anger and I want to see how effective that was for you.
Jerry Howard: Okay, so
Jerry Howard: You want to
Jerry Howard: The rabbit and what was it,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, write down the number. What, what, what did you notice, what did you notice in your body when you were at that number.
Jerry Howard: And then how did you respond
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so I want to know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If there was at a 90 tomorrow to Jerry still go at it, even though he knew he was at remind me whether Jerry do
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That would look like is putting the date.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Putting what happened, putting what number you thought you were at and what you did.
Jerry Howard: Why
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And what you did.
Jerry Howard: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And we'll talk about that next week. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, you have a good night. Take care. Let me know how that conversation goes
Jerry Howard: Off the call and my medicine today.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm not sure, but I'll send her an email until I bet you came to our session.
Jerry Howard: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay and I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: An email her. Do you have her email to let her know what medication and all that stuff.
Jerry Howard: So she
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Has
Jerry Howard: I don't, I don't have it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, I'm in the email that I sent to the doctor, a real
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm going to copy you and that way you can reply to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Her with your medication. Okay, wait.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your email is still the juicing that your email, was it coming up. I have Jay Brandon Howard.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: 12 1988 at gmail.com
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, so let me email. Dr. April. Now, and just reply to live with what you need for your medication.
Jerry Howard: Thank you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're Welcome. Have a good night.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you
Jo Delgadillo: Against
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I don't know. Tell me about that. What's going on.
Jo Delgadillo: Crazy everything I do about it.
Jo Delgadillo: Everything and I know it's because we're all stuck in my grandma's house.
Jo Delgadillo: Nobody were white bread right now.
Jo Delgadillo: Sauce because of all of it virus going on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With the complaining about
Jo Delgadillo: My bed.
Jo Delgadillo: And I had it. We had to tie it to the top of the truck and my brother went with me.
Jo Delgadillo: He wouldn't even go he didn't even want to get us off the game, which is driving me nuts because it's only wants to play video games.
Jo Delgadillo: I didn't say nothing. I was just sick whatever me my brother ago. And then I get I wore out there. We went to go get the bed and the lady had you know those fold up like that to put away and then they open
Jo Delgadillo: She had one of those. I bought it. It was only 20 bucks and it in the back of my truck and I told him.
Jo Delgadillo: Me and my brother were carrying a big bed in and I was like, can you grab the bed from the back end, he wouldn't. Grab it because he said it won't fit in the house.
Jo Delgadillo: So I had to come back out of here after doing all that stuff in there, put into bed together for my drum on there.
Jo Delgadillo: I didn't get the other bed and it's frustrating. And then I asked her, do the homework with daily
Jo Delgadillo: He was supposed to do. That was gone, and he didn't do that with her and we left at like 323 and we just barely got back, and he couldn't do it with her.
Jo Delgadillo: And now I have her do it sitting down doing it. And I told him she supposed to be practicing her writing her first and last name right now because she's doing it pretty sloppy.
Jo Delgadillo: And I was like, you have to do with her and he was he was being a smartass when I was walking out the door because I told him, he's going to do with her because she's been doing a sloppy.
Jo Delgadillo: And needs to be a little bit neater. That's why we're the whole reason why she's doing it practicing your name. And he was like, oh, you made a squiggly line on your jay oh you didn't thought the I thought
Jo Delgadillo: It's just little things she keeps picking
Jo Delgadillo: Picking yesterday I clean the whole house and I leave, I come outside. What was I doing
Jo Delgadillo: I don't remember what I was doing, but I left for some reason I come in in the whole floor. There's trash everywhere.
Jo Delgadillo: And he's just sitting there playing the game.
Jo Delgadillo: It's
Jo Delgadillo: It's so frustrating.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I
Jo Delgadillo: pulled him aside last week and ask them, can you stop playing the game so much like help me just a little bit.
Jo Delgadillo: Take a few hours out of the day just to help me asked me what I need done because I go crazy trying to keep up with. We're all in here together. It's not just you. It's not just me. It's not just
Jo Delgadillo: Well, I feel like I'm the only one that's everybody's, do this, do that and they are everybody comes through. You like my grandma, with it, the dresser i mean the the bed. I had to go yesterday, my brother picking him up from edge would like it's annoying. Like, I just want to sit down to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: See you, your stress.
Jo Delgadillo: Stress was obsessed
Jo Delgadillo: My favorite shirt. It's big, but I love the shirt.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, that all sounds very stressful.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To take on so much, but I know in our last session. It's been a while. But I know we've been talking about the common theme of everyone goes to because they can't
Do it.
Jo Delgadillo: And because I do it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Has there been anything that you've applied to kind of release some of this this distress.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, we're doing stuff for myself, but it always has to be like a two or three o'clock in the morning.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because
Jo Delgadillo: The baby if like, I'll get her to sleep in showing up hurting or get a baby away and chew on a cup, but she doesn't watch. It's just
Jo Delgadillo: It's just little things here and there. Her knees hurting her wanted to take a shower because our needs are and
Jo Delgadillo: It's hard, but I wouldn't painting for myself. I painted a picture and we've been doing wrong. We're doing stuff with them to this. So they will sit down, so I can actually sit down and do something.
Jo Delgadillo: Or he's just like, give them the computer even a phone. I'm like, I don't want them sitting on phones and computers all day long.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't, and she's already getting used to it. You should see her throw a fit when I tell her no show support hair, you should try to scratch yourself. That's what I used to do when I was a kid, I would hurt myself when I would get mad and now she doesn't
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She's the one that's doing it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm curious. It's interesting that you brought up childhood, because I was going to ask how this this experience of always being needed, and how does it connect to your childhood. Do you see any connection. Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: That's how it was because my mom was always drunk and when she had friends. They were either drug addicts or drugs, but I didn't know what drugs weren't back then when I was little, but I knew what drinking was because as soon as I hear what hear
Jo Delgadillo: Like I would go into, I don't even know how to explain it like scared.
Jo Delgadillo: When I tiptoe around my mom I'd be careful what I'd say with all her friends that used to come around. They had kids and I took care of them.
Jo Delgadillo: I wasn't, I remember being three or four years old, changing diapers. My mom's friend, Dorian, had a set of twins and then she had a three three year old. He was like a year younger than me. But he didn't talk at all like didn't say a word. He went home, he
Jo Delgadillo: Didn't talk at all. So I was like a lot smarter than him. And everybody would tell me that in front of him. Oh, you're so much harder than
Jo Delgadillo: You do this for the girls. I was taking care of newborns. There were three weeks old.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And how are you
Jo Delgadillo: Three, three to four years old.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, really little, but I took care of my little brother to. So that's how I knew, and they would leave me with them and they would leave
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: redeploy you still remember like the sound of the beer or whatever that was opening up and, you know, to, to not mess up to just feel your best behavior. Wow.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wow.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That needs to please. So whenever there's like a parent or someone a family member that is an added there's different roles that people take off. So there's the added which know your childhood and was your mom with your father involved.
Jo Delgadillo: They don't remember my dad is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so your mom was the addict. So that was your mom's role in the family. There's, there's five other roles. So there's the enabler.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's okay. He's the one that denies everything doesn't see any issue.
Jo Delgadillo: For us, you'll make excuses for us, you know,
Jo Delgadillo: She was my neighbor and she's my neighbor or she's my cousins and they are now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Huh.
Jo Delgadillo: And I love it. And I'm like, that's, that's part of it. We ended, and I'll have it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In doing what she and
Jo Delgadillo: I think he's doing drugs. And every time I asked her, and she's just like, no, he's probably doing that he's tired. He's probably doing this for those are excuses. You did it with me.
Jo Delgadillo: I remember you me wanting to tell the truth that I had a drug problem because I wanted to, but you would say no. Let's just tell them it's this and that. I'm like what I want help, like
Jo Delgadillo: She didn't know how to help me.
Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: I'm telling her when you're an addict. Is it scary to say you want to help, but the search engine on Google, when I pulled it up on the computer. It says I'm addiction opiate addiction.
Jo Delgadillo: And the President's been looking it up, but he doesn't want to tell me. So I was in the hall for him.
Jo Delgadillo: To tell him like, you know, even, even though we're cousins will make sure they don't put us in the same group, nothing like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: You can have your own thing I want to tell them I want to, I mentioned it down about right, or else I'm scared to like push it.
Jo Delgadillo: When I think I should, because
Jo Delgadillo: I even thought about drug testing his feet, because when it goes up in the morning in the toilet flush.
Jo Delgadillo: Yes, that's how
Jo Delgadillo: That's how worried. I am
Jo Delgadillo: My gramma things is to control them like
Jo Delgadillo: No, like I could care less about controlling he can die.
Jo Delgadillo: You drinks like
Jo Delgadillo: If he's taking pills and he's drinking. He can dine asleep.
Jo Delgadillo: I heard his friend, his mom died and supposedly HIS FRIEND. DRINK morphine.
Jo Delgadillo: So my typical obviously has access to morphine function, you know,
Jo Delgadillo: In my case, I was like me when we did drugs. We didn't know our limit and we're like, all we could take it. We can do this, do that and and he's like that. And he's been carrying around one of those bottles of liquor or recall it.
Jo Delgadillo: And drinking it.
Jo Delgadillo: Takes a drink.
Jo Delgadillo: And I'm like that's he's got a problem.
Jo Delgadillo: And and it's kind of sad because my end, when I had cancer passed away, three years ago and he washes her clothes like she born numb or something and having some backup.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He died. We use them.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: It's that's not normal.
Jo Delgadillo: That's like you can you tell he's
Jo Delgadillo: He's holding on her. I think that makes it easier. But he knows in the back of his mind.
Jo Delgadillo: That's where the drugs come in.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Some mental health, you know, you agree, yes, a mental health psychosis and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That
Jo Delgadillo: started a fight with me a week over week last weekend. He started to fight with me and I went off.
Jo Delgadillo: Because I was like I do everything for everyone in this House, and you want to pitch about my dogs. I take care of all your guys's dogs dog food. I do everything, even when I'm not here.
Jo Delgadillo: When I come here. I cleaned up all the dog poop and pee around your house. I don't even leave here and I do it even outside
Jo Delgadillo: And he's like, well, your dog's gonna do this get called them and tell them to come take them away. And I'm like, Oh man, that was and he was like, you know what I mean. And I'm like, No, I'm not. I'm like,
Jo Delgadillo: I gave him the white dog he has. And I was like, did you get him a shots. No. Did you get him registered know I'm like, So how you can talk about my dog.
Jo Delgadillo: My dogs. I've been to the bed faithfully there they're registered there. They got all their shots and he hasn't done nothing sauce. And then he started crying.
Jo Delgadillo: And so I went outside and I called Jake because he wasn't here and I was had to use my computer because my phone updated all by itself. So I couldn't use it at all.
Jo Delgadillo: So I was on a computer outside the door. I was bawling my eyes out because I was mad.
Jo Delgadillo: And I didn't want to keep yelling, because the girls were getting scared and they've never seen me do that before they don't know the violent part
Jo Delgadillo: Of life because I put that away from them. So they were getting here and I was talking to my boss, and he's like,
Jo Delgadillo: What is just problem. And I don't know, all of a sudden my cousin comes out the door. Knees bawling. His eyes out like hyperventilating, and I was like, I gotta go and
Jo Delgadillo: Close the computer. And he's like, like, try not to cry like I can hear you breathing and I'm like dude was this for me, or is this caused by something else.
Jo Delgadillo: I'm like, because your argument made no sense, honestly, and he's like, I know, I'm sorry, don't leave. And I was like, Jeff. Something's going on with you. I was like, Just tell me. I was like, I can help you.
Jo Delgadillo: I have resources to help you like what I'm doing it. If it wasn't for that are probably lose my mind and kill everybody when I get to talk and hear your point of view, it helps
Jo Delgadillo: Like for you telling me and you don't have to beat around the bush. That's your job. That's what I try telling him, he's just like, No, everything's fine and nothing's fine. It's the lead was crying. His bully. He had a lot going on inside here, he just he won't talk about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: I tried. I told him. If you want to talk no matter what it is I'm here like you can talk to me this manual used to be really close. And now I see, I see how her to use
Jo Delgadillo: More gross just she doesn't want to see it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She told a blue so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I wonder, I, I'm thinking you're the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hero because that's another role, you tell me if I'm right because the hero is the hard working person the perfection is put lots of pride and achievements.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And try to bring the family together to make it appear that it's a normal functioning family, even though they see the distress. And so what they try to do is they try to give hope to the rest of the family.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: By doing good being available being present. They represent the hero. And so now, people don't have to focus on that.
Jo Delgadillo: That's exactly it.
Jo Delgadillo: Stressful.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Yeah, because this person is trying to make the families seem as though. Everything's okay.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's a scapegoat. That's the person that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They get blamed for all the problems in the family.
Jo Delgadillo: Would be me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You think you're the hero and people
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, like everybody. It's not in this House in this around us, like my aunts, uncles, cousins, my girl. My sisters and all that they blame me for everything that's wrong in my life.
Jo Delgadillo: Because I will leave her like
Jo Delgadillo: Where are they, they want to say how horrible. I am. But where are they
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are they
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Doing horrible.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What anything that you're doing. That's horrible.
Jo Delgadillo: Oh, they still think I'm on drugs.
Jo Delgadillo: And and I just found out about this like four or five days ago about my son, my oldest son is 19 or 20 he turned 20 yesterday, but
Jo Delgadillo: He's a product of rape.
Jo Delgadillo: And back then. I didn't talk about it.
Jo Delgadillo: I didn't say anything about it at all. Nobody knew I couldn't remember nothing to tell anybody. I just put myself in a position. I shouldn't have. So I by myself for years. I blame myself and I was ashamed of it.
Jo Delgadillo: Lots of therapy got me to where I don't need to be ashamed. I didn't break myself.
Jo Delgadillo: It is my body, no one has the right to do things to it, unless I want them to
Jo Delgadillo: So I had to get that in my head. And now that is there nobody in my family knows that he he came from. Right.
Jo Delgadillo: Criminals. And my grandma says you're trying to tell my uncles and all them when they had like some reunion thing out there in Texas.
Jo Delgadillo: Last year, and they were all talking and I was a slight I was a whole like all this stuff. And she was defending you know like know why defend me to people like that. Let them believe what they want to believe I'm tired of defending myself to them.
Jo Delgadillo: Like believe what you want to leave because if you're not going to take the chance to get to know the person I am now, then I don't want you
Jo Delgadillo: And if they were they made me cry. And she kept trying to defend me. I was like, if they can see that you're crying and emotional over the way they were talking about me and they didn't care. They don't care about you and they don't because I had to go pick her up.
Jo Delgadillo: When a month later, I had to go pick a we had to rent a U Haul truck go pick her up and go back to that go to Mexico.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that dynamic because I'm curious that you identify as the hero and the scapegoat.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When do you feel that night hero role comes up and when the scapegoat comes up.
Jo Delgadillo: Hero part is when I'm with my family, the one that's in this House right now. That's our bubble
Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: It's always been like this.
Jo Delgadillo: And escape, though, is when the other part of the family comes around.
Jo Delgadillo: Because I kind of like whatever
Jo Delgadillo: The if
Jo Delgadillo: If it's my fault. It's my fault. It's better meet her to be my fault in my grandma's like I rather take the full than her. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in your household, your, your bubble is there someone cuz you're on Suboxone is there someone that's added in your bubble
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm sorry.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My cousin cousin.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My husband.
Jo Delgadillo: He will he used to, but she doesn't. It doesn't. Nothing. He hasn't done since you gave me ultimatum or seven years ago.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that that complex of having two identities, is where that stress comes up.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because you're taking the blame for everyone in situation for the family. But at the same time, the hero thrives on being the perfection. They thrive on their achievements.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because I hear whenever mostly I think of the hero when it comes to talk about your bubble, like you said, because whenever you talk about your kids will say things like they've never seen me that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, I try to make sure that they're on task. My husband doesn't do ABC. You're very structure. You know, when it comes to the children take lots of pride and being a good responsible mom.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But then the outside influences they pull from you. They just pull from you. They want so much from you, you help out with so much. It makes me wonder if to the outside. Are you the hero, or are you in an enabler.
Jo Delgadillo: Both. Well, I could see the enabler Part two
Jo Delgadillo: Just to make people happy. Yeah.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A lot of these identities that you're trying to balance.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: enabler hero Skakel
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's two other roles to there's the mascot. And the last last child, but in you trying to balance two different households, because there's your mom and all the family that comes up with your childhood in which your grandma represents. And then there's your bubble
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When these two worlds merged together.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Who is Joe Is she the hero has she been made or she escaped through
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And because you don't know is why an issue presents itself you deal with it stress over it. Take on everybody else's burden little next problem comes deal with it because you haven't establish your own
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Purpose what you want for yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're very focused on what's going on with everyone else and helping everyone else. Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: That's, that's exactly why I sat down this morning and started making dinner every little thing.
Jo Delgadillo: Like a, like a chart of everything needs to be done from the morning to one. The girls go to sleep. So I'll be able to schedule time for myself.
Jo Delgadillo: Because I need it.
Jo Delgadillo: I can feel myself like look
Jo Delgadillo: I don't want you coming
Jo Delgadillo: I'm still wearing the monitor thing, but they they said they might have me send it in early because the whole coronavirus thing.
Jo Delgadillo: I feel like kind of pointless.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: No, I can't even get a doctor because I called around and they said, nobody's taking new patients right now.
Jo Delgadillo: Not until after the quarantine tumor.
Jo Delgadillo: So it's going to all be put on pause, I guess, for who knows how long. But at least I did it. And it's being monitored.
Jo Delgadillo: And it's because I have to push this little button.
Jo Delgadillo: I've been carrying my pocket.
Jo Delgadillo: Push the button. Every time I feel a little like a chest pain.
Jo Delgadillo: It makes me more aware of it now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: I wasn't aware of how much I have chest pain and I every time they call me because whatever time you're supposed to call me and ask me my symptoms and it's always. It sounds like exciting to me.
Jo Delgadillo: And they're just like, oh, we don't know because and I'll
Jo Delgadillo: Tell me anything. I swear it's anxiety. Yeah, I can be sitting there doing nothing, or just watching TV and like mall have part like like I can't breathe like someone sitting on my chest and it hurts like underneath my blue over here. Like, I don't want my hardest and
Jo Delgadillo: airy. Sorry, I've been telling myself. It's just anxiety, so I don't get scared.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm gonna pull up the scale for you. I want you to take a look at it. I'm gonna go turn on my light, but I'm going to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Give you time to look at the numbers, while I go on. Turn on the light
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what I have for you here is the subject unit of distress scale.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I use this for patients that have any high distress tolerance, whether it be anger management, anxiety, depression,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This thermometer is helpful because it gives a number two, what you're feeling and it may be difficult to really explain your emotions because what I hear in our conversations
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is the conflict between responsibility self care between being a good mom but taking care of me as a woman.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I hear that constant conflict and then in the midst of that conflict because there's really no true sense of what's most important. The environment presents itself. So even just now, like I mentioned, the three roles scapegoat hero and enabler.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When do you put that on windy. Take that paper. It's hard. So think about the last time that you felt
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anxiety. What day was it what was going on.
Jo Delgadillo: Today,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Today, and was it what you shared with you know your husband with the school and getting
Jo Delgadillo: All the stuff. It started as soon as I woke up to you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Really. Okay. Where were you when you first of all. What number would you give yourself.
Jo Delgadillo: When I first woke up.
Jo Delgadillo: 40
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. First up, you have 40 mild to moderate anxiety distress.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When we feel it raining.
Jo Delgadillo: Like when I was almost done making the chart for hit daily
Jo Delgadillo: Okay, that's when my grandma was like, are you going to go to bed for me or you can do this so you can adapt. I was like, yeah, let me try and hurry up and make this one and then my little clarity level like a shill it raising because he was just playing again.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Do you read a 40 and when you said you could feel it. Where did you feel it in your body.
Jo Delgadillo: My chest
Jo Delgadillo: Like
Jo Delgadillo: Excitedly like shaky.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so you went from a 42 what number
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: 7075 distress interfere with your functioning some physiological signs present at chest pain, the shaping
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is interfering with your function.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What did that mean for you. Was it hard for you to focus on the schedule now.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We started thinking about what instead of a schedule. Where did you go boating
Jo Delgadillo: Just leaving
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Gotta get out the door.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, I just, I just got to get out. Let me get in the truck, go get this bed and
Jo Delgadillo: Chill out a little it worked because my brother was Israel, we talk
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you were at a comfortable, you know, will not forget that we're comfortable, but considering that you already having it to wake up a year out of 40. That's good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But, and now you're focusing on one thing you're able to just focus on the structure that is your hero Kate that's on because the hero is a type A personality, they're structured they're organized we able to do that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And now someone needs you to get something so now you can't just focus on this thing for your daughter. Now you're at a 70
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're at a 70, you still have on your here okay because you're like out fix it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you put on any of the case in that moment, just like you were enabling or the escape goat.
Jo Delgadillo: Know, or just
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, you just met. He was still
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Nice. So, did it ever get higher than a 70
Jo Delgadillo: Today, no. Oh, wait.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, when he wouldn't bring the bed and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where did you go
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To battle 9090 extremely anxious and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: High and that look for you at a 90
Jo Delgadillo: It comes out as anger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And how do you, how do you show getting
Jo Delgadillo: Our yo
Jo Delgadillo: Mainly, yo. That's all I do.
Jo Delgadillo: And then they go to my face over you're yelling, but nobody heard me before, and now when I yo you throw it in my face. Now, yo.
Jo Delgadillo: It's all the time to no one listens to me until I yell and then when I yell. They're like, you're yelling
Jo Delgadillo: Did you hear me the 20,000 times I asked you to do something like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: I do everything for everybody, but I can ask, no one to do anything for me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So when you jump to that 90 you're here. Okay. It was no longer on because now you became the scapegoat cuz you said people are now focused on yelling and not focus on what you did for them. Their focus on this Blue Angel for her reaction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What, what role, if you had to choose what role would you choose. Be yourself hero Keiko or enabling
Jo Delgadillo: Sure. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So how do you still keep on that hero, Kate, even though she went from 70 to 90
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just to manage her anger better
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so no one has grown to brain Jill for her response. So I'm going to give you a template that I use to help people in communicating when there's conflict when they need to express themselves. It's i feel i understand i need
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So do I feel fill in the blank or whatever that feeling. I understand. So in the blank of whatever that is. And I mean, fill in the blank.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That template is critical because the I feel gives you an opportunity to check in with what's really going on with yourself. Because sometimes what you reacting to isn't always anger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Maybe you're disappointed that your husband is it helping you, the way you want. Maybe you're frustrated because you're doing a lot
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's probably not even anger, but because you're so accustomed to my needs. Don't get met I'm yelling, you immediately say, I have anger issues.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Really is probably not even that it's probably just a process is series of you being misunderstood. You're not effectively communicating your feelings. So then you say that you have anger problem.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Really is Joker work on communicating back. So let's go back to you. Be and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What would you say I feel fill in the blank.
Jo Delgadillo: Like when I was talking about.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Uh huh.
I feel
Jo Delgadillo: Word.
Jo Delgadillo: What's the word that you said Dan.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Disappointed.
Jo Delgadillo: Disappointed. There we go.
Jo Delgadillo: It's a lot of disappointment, honestly.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Some of the emotions that might even leave for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Why now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes. Okay. Okay.
Jo Delgadillo: It's mostly disappointed and more out because
Jo Delgadillo: We're doing it right. Like I'll think about. I'm like, oh, maybe, since we talked to start helping know
Jo Delgadillo: When again.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it's, I feel more now and disappointed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That you couldn't help me put this bed in the trunk.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I understand what do you understand about the situation.
Jo Delgadillo: That he likes to play games.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I understand that you need your alone time too.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I need fill in the blank.
Oh,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the I feel I understand, and I need is important because I feel like this, it gives you an opportunity to check in, what, what's really going on with Joe to not just use the emotions of anxiety and anger as the picture of what's going on with you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because it makes it seem as though you're always the blame. So in a sense you willing to take on the role of scapegoat because you said in the pants I yell people get mad at me. So that's become your normal process.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And over time, you probably got comfortable with.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, well, I'm a yo, they don't get mad. Whatever I got anger issues I mentioned but know if you really put on. I'm wondering now and I'm disappointed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That doesn't give anybody an opportunity to make you the scapegoat.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I understand.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Gives the other person an opportunity to realize Jones trying to be compassionate here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I can't blame Joe for this because she she's considering me to win this moment, and that I need gives you an opportunity to be very clear.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In what you want what you need and what your expectations are. And for someone who so accustomed to being an enabler and helping people. You probably don't communicate your needs much because everybody else is telling you what they need. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I want you to try this as a form of practice to help build your communication and importance for these two, it's critical because that that measuring scale that I told you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is your opportunity to see a number. So you can really pinpoint when you're getting to that high level of distress and that you're going to react in a way that's not going and that gives people the opportunity to throw that scapegoat cape on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But the i feel i understand i need gives you that emotional checking so that you can really get in tune with what is going on. Why am I stressed. Why am I feeling overwhelmed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And even if you were to say this to your husband and he still doesn't put the bed in the trunk you walk away knowing that nobody can blame me for how I reacted because I communicated so calmly. So effectively, I am not the state go in this situation, this person needs to work on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because the way finding earlier gives your husband, the opportunity to come back and say, you're always yelling, you always doing this and dismiss what the real issues you need help.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But he can hide behind your scapegoat flow if you pop up and you be angry because now he could just point the finger at us at the problem.
Jo Delgadillo: And I guess.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's practice that give me another situation where you could model but i feel i understand i mean
Jo Delgadillo: Yesterday when I was making spaghetti micro doesn't make spaghetti.
Jo Delgadillo: And she told me I usually take noodles out and put it to the side and take lead out before, but the sauce and
Jo Delgadillo: So she can have it. I did the noodles, but yesterday I was going to clean Justin's house. That's a friend of ours. If you started cancer.
Jo Delgadillo: And he
Jo Delgadillo: doesn't have much energy. So we can't get around. So I clean his house a rule of law for him. Well, yesterday was one of those days.
Jo Delgadillo: And I was like trying to hurry because I didn't want to be out too late and I knew I didn't have that much to do over there. So I forgot to take the hamburger meat out all my gramma walks in and wait till she was triggered a mumbling. So I was like, oh, she's like, where's
Jo Delgadillo: The hamburger meat and I was like I was like, I didn't notice when I sorry I totally forgot to take out the hamburger meat. I'm sorry. I'll cookie some more because this one's already mix. I should have known that you would do that. It's so it's so expected and I was like, what
Jo Delgadillo: And she was like, I shouldn't know and I was like why she's like cars.
Jo Delgadillo: Because I do it all the time. She's like, Yeah. And I was like, really. So I do it all the time. And she was just like, yeah, no, no, I don't ever like is the first time I've ever done it.
Jo Delgadillo: Sure is just like whatever, and I was just like, what, what is that supposed to mean she's like, take it however you want. I was just like,
Jo Delgadillo: Okay, I'm trying to hurry to go and she she was like, Oh, that'd be a good idea to go help him. So I was like, Oh, no. Do it. And plus, I get to get out of the house for a little bit with no kids, I was totally
Jo Delgadillo: On
Jo Delgadillo: I was totally on board to get out of the house.
Jo Delgadillo: We feel bad because I was trying to rush and I forgot the hamburger me, but I still offer to cook her some more before I left, even though I was in a rush. She just she made me feel like I was at me.
Jo Delgadillo: Like I can write
Jo Delgadillo: And it's about everything. If I sweep. If I clean the living room. Oh, you didn't do this right, and do that right you but you didn't center it like I'm just like,
Jo Delgadillo: That's why I go crazy trying to make sure I do everything perfect is she's always in my head and I try to tell her that it isn't perfect. I'm like, What do you mean it has to be perfect. You're constantly on top of me telling me if I don't do things right. Don't do it at all.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wow.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, that's tomato. It's like a little girl. It was always like that. If you're not gonna do it right, do it at all. Got to be perfect and my poor babies, they are like that to know
Jo Delgadillo: Trying to make everything perfect
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Great this pattern and this cycle of this perfectionism, where there's no room for mistakes or error because you don't want your children to have this hero scapegoat enabler complex that you're jumping
Jo Delgadillo: I learned from our mistakes because things are good.
Jo Delgadillo: That's how you learn. She doesn't like it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, I'm grandma.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Grandma. So let's talk about the situation. Give me your ideal. I understand. And I need sleep.
Jo Delgadillo: I feel hurt.
Jo Delgadillo: And
Jo Delgadillo: I guess.
Jo Delgadillo: Hurts and
Jo Delgadillo: Appreciate it. There's the word
Jo Delgadillo: What's the next one. I understand.
Jo Delgadillo: That she wanted to meet
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Me.
Jo Delgadillo: And then I need
Jo Delgadillo: To
Jo Delgadillo: Understand that I was in a rush, and I'm sorry.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Oh, good. I feel
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: unappreciated
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And hurt. I understand you're hungry and you'd like to spaghetti with the meat.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I need some understanding
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Can you give that to me and she still goes off, guess what, that's all her because you were still able to keep
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your position you were able to effectively communicate your emotion and even if she does not respond the way you want.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Nobody gives opportunity to respond. Good. Your body because now instead of your body feeling the anxiety. It gets to release really motion that that the body in the brain is process.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But because you are internalizing the emotions of anxiety and anger. It really doesn't give your body a good way to respond back so it continues to activate that cortisol to get you frustrated, to get you into that fight.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But if you can activate that calmness that parasympathetic process in your brain to say, wow, because feeling unappreciated and feels a lot different than anger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It gives your body, the opportunity to really adequately process, the emotion and so over time you'll notice I might have. I might not have to push the button as much for chest pain because I realize I'm not really angry. I'm just a little unappreciated
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I'm actually more disappointed with my husband than angry.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, even get frustrated when I push the button.
Jo Delgadillo: Because it makes a noise, it goes
Jo Delgadillo: for like a minute. And they're like, oh, no, it's not the standard cover it. So nobody complains about it. It's annoying.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But do you see and just doing this exercise that this is a household with this is a family dynamic of being unable to really process very motion.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Effectively, because
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: And we don't
Jo Delgadillo: Like we don't
Jo Delgadillo: We'll talk like we do. We look like a really, really close family. We are. But when it comes to like real emotions and I'm talking about really emotions and letting it out there. We don't do that we used to. We don't do that anymore.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: And then I noticed a difference between the time that we did talk and we did let all the emotions out even cry together and all that.
Jo Delgadillo: I noticed the difference. Everybody was happier than we communicated. For now, it's nothing even my grandma gets frustrating raises your voice and she does not raise your voice.
Jo Delgadillo: In the past few years, it's just it's sucks because I remember a time when we communicate it
Jo Delgadillo: I think it would help everybody if we just sat down and talk to each other and and not say hurtful things just because you want to hurt each other.
Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: It does when I try to sit down and talk with her.
Jo Delgadillo: And tell her how I feel.
Jo Delgadillo: I'll say something, how I feel. And she doesn't like what I say. Because it's because something she's done or said to me, we feel that way.
Jo Delgadillo: She'll say things early and I'm just like, See, that's what I'm talking about. Fine. I won't do this. You don't want me to talk like she gets like that. I'm just like, see.
Jo Delgadillo: Now you're getting frustrated because you didn't like what I said that's not fair to say thanks to me that I'm not going to want to hear.
Jo Delgadillo: And I'm just gonna have to hear it.
Jo Delgadillo: Like I have to take it. That's the way you feel. I can't tell someone else out of feel
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, she just she doesn't like it.
Jo Delgadillo: But I'm going to ask everybody wants to sit down and talk
Jo Delgadillo: Through
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, it would, and even, even if they say no, you get to be that model for what effective communication looks like you get to, to demonstrate how I noticed a change in Joe. She's not yelling as much
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She's saying that I feel. She's saying the. I understand that. I understand is so important, too, because it gives the other person the opportunity to see how you view them to see that you still love them, even if you're frustrated or disappointed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because even if you were to say to your husband and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm disappointed that you didn't help me put the bed in the Trump. I understand we draw a long time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because men are thinking Joe is asking you for a DMC she's always nagging, the way you say I just say you need your own time. He makes it. Oh, wow.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She's recognizing that I need to relax, too. But I mean, and that gives them the opportunity to really hear from your voice. What you need versus seeing a reaction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To what you're not getting so that's what he's been seeing your reaction to what you're not getting you see your anger, the same your irritability is not really feeling that there must be some disappointment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And he probably doesn't feel understood
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What areas do you feel Miss understood
Jo Delgadillo: Everything basically
Jo Delgadillo: Because the way everybody reacts to kind of don't care what the average adult they're
Jo Delgadillo: Actually, I don't see that they care.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, would you need to see to know that they here.
Jo Delgadillo: Just tear a little bit at least show it like, I don't know, like, just a minute ago and I've spent together. We just sat there and watch me do it.
Jo Delgadillo: I moved to hear twin size beds to have them to box springs to thing is, and then two Queen beds all by myself, like, help me. Let's show that you care. I do everything for you guys. Just, just a little bit.
Jo Delgadillo: My I hate that I have to cost them, they'll see me Karen arms full of groceries.
Jo Delgadillo: Coming in and out and everybody just sit there watching me.
Jo Delgadillo: And if I say, Can anybody help me once you got it. Yeah, but a little bit of help with just a little because I started to stand here and put all of it away.
Jo Delgadillo: Like we bought we bought like for the grocery store today and I had to put all of it away what everybody else just did their thing, wandering around the house and hanging out and I'm just like,
Jo Delgadillo: The babies both babies are crying that they were hungry and I'm like no one fed them. I've been gone go shopping for almost four hours and then come back and hit Enter atmospheric there's nothing to feed them. What is this fruit up there. They don't have to have a full meal all the
Jo Delgadillo: Excuses all the time.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, maybe not a chore. It's give her a frickin banana, apple. It's that simple.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so we're going to see his message if you ask me for health, while you're already actively doing the work.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because if you're dragging the beds in and you're already halfway through the door and you ask for help. I've been there. I know that is not clear. It's what speaking is your irritability, it's not really the me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So probably comes up you struggling with the bed. Can somebody help me. That's what what they're seeing. But what if
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You got out the car. You came through the door empty hand and you say, I'm feeling really overwhelmed or I have a lot of groceries in the car.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Understand, you guys got some stuff going on. But I'm really need some help, can, can I have to leave three you come out and help me with the girl sweets.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you stand there, you don't move until somebody gets up to help you bring it back. But if you're already bringing the bags in
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It gives them their go show again she built it all last year she already halfway through the door. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then the communication doesn't even come in. Good. Because you're already irritated. I've been there, I've gone grocery shopping
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have come in with the bags and my boys are sitting on the couch and I'm like nobody's gonna help me with the bag but the times that I have walked through the door with one bag.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I can tell you my voice. I said, You want more back to the car and I'll say yes. And they go out and they get the banks.
Jo Delgadillo: Are so that is I came in with one bag like like a week ago.
Jo Delgadillo: Now I go grocery shopping twice a week.
Jo Delgadillo: And I came in with one because that was
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For the babies and they were
Jo Delgadillo: Like, Oh, do you need help. It's true was one when I carried one back. They did.
Jo Delgadillo: They have to say anything.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Imagery
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you been able to do it all.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your independent woman you have lots of accomplishments. You're a go getter, you get things done it all the imagery, they see is, you're always getting things done.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They don't feel needed
Jo Delgadillo: Here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you come in and with that one bag that imagery is changing because then I oh
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And now there's this curiosity about what she has one back. Wonder if
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we're working on the communication and the imagery, they're so used to seeing you busy doing it all and Always in a rush.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're gonna have to change that up.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, not rushing in. Or like, what are you doing
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, like
Jo Delgadillo: Taking a break. Why you're free to do like
You see,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Change the imagery for them. Next time somebody says, Hey, I need you to do A, B and C. Okay, I'll get to it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Don't let them see even if you feel it here in your body that oh my gosh, I need to get out this door. I need to hurry up. Slow it down purposely slow it down so that these people will continue to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Use you to get their needs met.
Jo Delgadillo: Like this morning when she asked me to do that. I was thinking in my head. It doesn't need to be done now, but I can't like that way of thinking. It's not me anymore.
Jo Delgadillo: It's always rush, rush, rush. Do it now make them happy and just be done with it. And that's how I got to thinking that way.
Jo Delgadillo: I'm constantly in a rush, everybody tells me what do you drive faster, like I just always feel like I'm in a rush, like all the time and it sucks. Eat it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Purposely slow yourself down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: By slowing yourself down, you also give yourself an opportunity to really connect with what you're feeling. There's been several times in this session of that. Well, how would you know someone's pair. I don't know you haven't slowed down enough to really figure out what you need. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So all that's presenting is your irritability or anger. That's all this scene. Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: It's crazy how I know what everybody else needs about myself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: I never thought about that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have on this enabler cake.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But if you take off that Kate, you take off the scapegoat Kate you focus on you, said the KP one where it's just hero. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We focus on that you can be able to focus on what Joe really means in this moment slow things down and be more aware with what's going on with you so that the outside environment doesn't get the opportunity to throw whatever cakes. They want to give you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So let's work on that. I want you to work on this week I feel I understand, and I need and using that as a form of communication will never, you need to process and emotion.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And even if you don't feel like there's a safe person in your family that you can process that with have to sit by yourself efforts, just to really get into what's going on with you.
Okay.
Jo Delgadillo: You
Jo Delgadillo: I'm sure you remember my step son Aiden. The 13 year old.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, I don't remember if I've told you or somebody else but he drops little hints. He's been drawing boys kissing like
Jo Delgadillo: Gameboy and you'll give them to me and smile.
Jo Delgadillo: What do I say I
Jo Delgadillo: Just say, cool. That's a good picture and he'll have rainbows on them, you draw a whole book with boys kissing
Jo Delgadillo: Like boy. A boy is holding hands like
Jo Delgadillo: They're all gay
Jo Delgadillo: Everybody in the book and it's all boy.
Jo Delgadillo: And he's been printing pictures out online and he's if they're girls. He makes them look like boys and puts another boy next door. So they're gay. Is he trying to tell me something.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It seems like it. So, give him an opportunity to use this is communication skills, you get to model that for him. So the next one. He gives, gives you a picture. So this is nice. What do you, what are you trying to tell me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What did you say
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To me for you, you know, what does this picture mean for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And show curiosity and non judgmental way because then that gives them opportunity to really tell you what he's feeling because
Jo Delgadillo: No one else. Yeah. If somebody mentioned it. He acts like they didn't even say anything. But when I say yes, it's like I'm going to move over here and talk to her about it.
Jo Delgadillo: But he won't actually like say it's him.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, he's wanting someone to give them an invitation to speak when he gives you the picture. Oh, this is nice.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What more do you want to tell me about this picture.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Jo Delgadillo: Cuz he's scared, his mom is gonna freak out. She's like she
Jo Delgadillo: Wanted to kill him.
Jo Delgadillo: Okay, what a small things if he's coming he's coming to me not to smoke.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah
Jo Delgadillo: Myself until he's ready for no
Jo Delgadillo: Not my thing to do.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. And so the way he responds important because he sees you. He sees that hero cape on you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But remember, if he does go into detail about why he showed you. That's not your responsibility to tell his mom.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because what happens now is now the family. Once again, gets the put the scapegoat cape on you because what are they going to say
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They're going to find some way to make him tell you an issue you already see this pattern with your family, you're going to find some way
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To make it about you versus what's really going on with this child, then you're going to get triggered and then you're probably going to act out in a way that you're accustomed to the anger the frustration or the irritability.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So he tells you you know all this is a nice picture. What are you trying to tell me what is this picture me for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He says something like not being curious. Okay. Okay. Well, whenever you feel safe to tell your parents.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tell them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or leave it at that. Don't push him to tell them, don't ask why haven't you told mom and dad just listening.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Remember, what's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Going things down. You're not going to respond to the issue. You're just gonna listen
Okay.
Jo Delgadillo: Really do that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When can we meet again.
Jo Delgadillo: You're telling me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I have next week. Thursday available for five or six
Jo Delgadillo: What day is up.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The 16
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, that's good. Okay, let's do it.
Jo Delgadillo: Good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Alright, so you'll tell me how how the communication with the i feel i understand i need you remember that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah okay and so give me that process for you what the feeling is where the understanding and the meat and let me know how you reacted when when having distress. Okay. Okay. All right, good.
Jo Delgadillo: Stuff.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Into bye